**1. Realm Settings :**

* Realm is the isolated environment where we can store the group of clients and their settings together.

**2. Clients :**

* Clients are the applications that interact with the keycloak (Auth server) for authentication.
    * client list :- list of clients
    * initial access token :- initial access token generated by keycloak to create new client. (Refer
      clientRegisteration.md)
    * Client Registration Policy :- policy or condition for the client registration. (Refer clientRegisteration.md)
    * Initial access token is required only for the authenticated client registration.
    * Anonymous policy is for the client registration with the authentication (without initial access token).
    * There is postman collection is there under **Keycloak** (Authenticated_Client_registeration_Initial_access_token).

* Client Settings :
    * This has control over the client (see clientSettings.md file).
    * **Client authentication:-** This defines the type of the OIDC client. When it's ON, the OIDC type is set to
      confidential access type. When it's OFF, it is set to public access type.
    * **Authorization:-** This enables fine-grained control over the authorization.
    * **Authentication flow:-**
        * Standard flow - This enables support of 'Authorization Code Flow' for this client.
        * Direct access grants - In terms of OAuth2 specification, this enables support of 'Resource Owner Password
          Credentials Grant' for this client.
        * Implicit flow - In terms of OpenID Connect or OAuth2 specifications, this enables support of 'Implicit Flow'
          for this client.
        * Service accounts roles - In terms of OAuth2 specification, this enables support of 'Client Credentials Grant'
          for this client.
        * OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant - This enables support for OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant, which
          means that client is an application on device that has limited input capabilities or lack a suitable browser.
        * OIDC CIBA Grant - This enables support for OIDC CIBA Grant, which means that the user is authenticated via
          some external authentication device instead of the user's browser.
    * **Credentials**-:
        * This tab is enabled only when the client authentication is turned on, because it is set for the confidential
          clients only.
        * **Client authenticator:-** This contains the client authentication mechanism.
            * Signed jwt uses RS algorithm for signing and signed jwt with client token uses HS algorithm, where only
              some text is used for signing like client secret. **So based on the algorithm we use, the signing
              procedure changes.**
            * See differentTypesOfSigningAlgorithm for more info.
    * **ServiceAccount roles**-:
        * Under this you can assign roles to the service accounts, that is client that uses client credentials grant
          type.
        * (see serviceAccount.md)
    * **Authorization:-**
        * Keycloak can be used for authorization purpose also, like user having particular role or path having
          particular role only can access the resource.
        * (more on YouTube https://www.youtube.com/@diveintodev)

**3. Client Scope :**

* Clients scope is the one that gets added to the access token or ID token. (**Scope :-** Opportunity to do something.)
* scope is like a allowed actions, that gets added in the tokens.
    * Create the client scope name.
    * client scope comes from the user attributes or default predefined scope is there.
    * User attribute are extra info of the user.
    * Under scope in the client scope, there is a option to assign role to it, so that only particular users in the role
      can access the client scope.
    * **Assigned type** will be default (by default it is applied to client), Optional (it is sent, if it is required in
      Oauth2.0 scope (see in postman, in OAUTH authorization there will be scope)).

**4. Realm Roles :-**

* Realm roles are the roles applicable only for the particular realm.

**5. Users:-**

* Details Tab:-
    * ID :- unique id for the user
    * Created At :- time of user creation
    * Required user actions :- once the users logged in, action to be performed. This actions comes from the **Required
      Actions** Tab, in Authentication. (we can configure it there).
    * Email Verified :- email is verified or not.
    * General is normal things, you can understand.
* Attributes Tab :-
    * We can add the extra info of the user here in this tab.
* Credentials Tab :-
    * Credentials tab, has password related things.
    * Temporary (User need to change the password on login).
* Role Mapping :-
    * Assigning role to the user.
    * Roles can be private to the client and if we create role in realm, it is globally available.
    * In role mapping, Filter by clients (in clients we can have separate roles, we can assign it here to the user.)and
      Filter by realm roles (global roles in realm).
* Groups :-
    * Groups is the common area, where related users and roles are grouped.
* Consents :-
    * The consents will only be recorded when users try to access a client that is configured to require consent. In
      that case, users will get a consent page which asks them to grant access to the client.
* Identity Providers :-
    * **TODO**
* Sessions :-
    * Active login sessions will be displayed here.

**6. Groups:-**

* Groups can be created here.

**7. Sessions:-**

* Sessions are sessions of users in this realm and the clients that they access within the session.

**8. Events:-**

* Events related to the login will be displayed here.

**9. Endpoint Details :-**

* {keycloak_base_url}/realms/{realm_name}/.well-known/openid-configuration

**10. Realm Settings :-**

* General Tab :
    * Realm ID : Id for the particular realm.
    * Display Name : name of the realm.
    * HTML Display Name : Html of the name in the login page.
    * Frontend Url : (See in notes).
    * Require SSL : Is HTTPS required? 'None' means HTTPS is not required for any client IP address. 'External requests'
      means localhost and private IP addresses can access without HTTPS. 'All requests' means HTTPS is required for all
      IP addresses.
    * Unmanaged Attributes : Unmanaged attributes are user attributes not explicitly defined in the user profile
      configuration. By default, unmanaged attributes are `Disabled` and are not available from any context such as
      registration, account, and the administration console. By setting `Enabled`, unmanaged attributes are fully
      recognized by the server and accessible through all contexts, useful if you are starting migrating an existing
      realm to the declarative user profile and you don't have yet all user attributes defined in the user profile
      configuration. By setting `Only administrators can write`, unmanaged attributes can be managed only through the
      administration console and API, useful if you have already defined any custom attribute that can be managed by
      users, but you are unsure about adding other attributes that should only be managed by administrators. By
      setting `Only administrators can view`, unmanaged attributes are read-only and only available through the
      administration console and API.
        * **By enabling this only the attributes tab will appear in the users options.**
    * User - managed Access : If enabled, users are allowed to manage their resources and permissions using the Account
      Management UI.
    * Endpoints : Shows the configuration of the Service Provider endpoint.
* Login Tab :
    * Easily understandable see ? mark near it. (userRegistration.md)
* Email Tab :
    * Email template related settings.
* Themes Tab :
    * Customizing themes section. (see md document for more info).
* Keys Tab :
    * Cryptographic keys for encryption and signing purpose in Oauth specification in keycloak.
* Events Tab :
    * Configure event listener.
    * Configure the user events like we need login event or not, like that here.
    * configure the admin exists here. https://www.keycloak.org/server/logging **REFER**!!!.
* Localization :
    * see internalization md file for info.
* Security defences :
    * see securityDefence md file for info.
* Session & Tokens :
    * see session & token md file for info.
* User Profile :
    * see user_profile & user_profile_validation.
    * Annotations are extra custom configuration, we can do it for the attribute like changing the input element to text
      area like that we have many.
    * These annotation take effect when particular event, like while inputting the field.
    * Attribute group, shows the attribute in group in UI see metadata group for example, whatever attribute we add it
      displays in groups in UI.
* User Registration Tab :
    * This tab contains default roles and groups that will be applied to the new users during registration.
* Client Policies :
    * see clientPolicies & executor md files for details.
    * Profiles has the config for the executor, that has the actual logic to do.
    * Policies has the client profiles and condition on which, it should be validated upon.

**11. Authentication Tab**

* Required Actions:-
    * In authenticating the users, the required actions are one that are required by the user to complete it.
    * We can have default actions for all users.
    * We can configure own required actions, by extending the service provider interface.
    * REFER **requiredActionsAuthentication.md**
* Policies :-
    * We can configure the authentication settings, like password length, like that.
* Flows :-
    * Authentication flows are the step-by-step process for particular authentication mechanism like browser flow.
    * We can have our own custom authentication flows by extending the service provider interface.
    * Some concepts are present in the YT videos downloaded.
* SPI :-
    * By extending the spi, we can customize or add additional functionality to the keycloak. (refer spi).
* Identity Brokering:-
    * Using the third party systems for authenticating is identity brokering.
    * The system that actually authenticates the request is called identity providers.
    * Here the keycloak acts as a middleman to authenticate.
    * eg:- github,google.
* User federation:-
    * see SSO_vs_UserFederation.md
* Custom SPI implementation:-
    * see ProjectSetupForKeycloak.md.md, JavaSPI_DesignPattern.md, keycloakSPI_architecture.md.
* Swagger Tools:-
    * Swagger tools are more powerful, it can visualize schemas, generate model and client code to make calls to api,
      and server side hosting of the swagger visualizer.
* Debugging keycloak in docker:-
    * To debug enable the port number and set the env for jvm. Then start the docker container with the run command and
      configure intellj to connect to the remote debuting.
    * Refer debugging in keycloak.
      **Some Resources are present in this slide also :**

<span style="color:red"> refer this slide :-- <a>https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1E1wdsMe-Bqb2JFVA2HI0rHfLLdVR7BCjJ-tpxKLeU4Y/edit</a> </span>
<span style="color:red"> NOTE !!! - In newer version in keycloak, some functionality is moved to new places in UI than the older version of keycloak, but works as same as older version. Sometimes bug also encountered in UI and new features also added in the newer versions. </span>